---
title: Data Access
layout: Page
route: resources/data
---

C-DEBI is committed to ensuring all the data generated are publicly available and deposited in a data repository for long-term storage as stated in the Data Management Policy. The data types and products resulting from C-DEBI-supported  research include a wide variety of geophysical, geological, geochemical, and biological information, in addition to education and outreach materials, technical documents, and samples. All data and information generated by C-DEBI-supported research projects are required to be made publically available either following publication of research results or within two (2) years of data generation.

To ensure preservation and dissemination of the diverse data-types generated by C-DEBI, we are working with t he NSF-funded [Biological and Chemical Oceanography Data Management Office (BCO-DMO)](http://bco-dmo.org/) to serve our data online from a dedicated C-DEBI Program page. The partnership with BCO-DMO helps ensure that the C-DEBI data are discoverable and available for reuse. The data stewardship philosophy promoted by BCO-DMO encompasses all phases of the research data lifecycle from "proposal to preservation" with a strong emphasis on facilitating analysis and synthesis; data contribution; discovery and access; data use and reuse; publication; and preservation.

::: also
Access the [C-DEBI Program page at BCO-DMO](http://bco-dmo.org/program/554979)  
:::

The BCO-DMO staff members have ocean science expertise and follow current data management best practices when advising investigators on best ways to organize their data and prepare the data for contribution to the BCO-DMO system. The BCO-DMO data managers work closely with the investigators to ensure that the metadata needed for subsequent data discovery, use, and reuse are collected and preserved with the data. The metadata records include information about the design of the experiment or sampling program, data acquisition details including instruments used and quality assurance measures, and data processing steps (including quality control procedures) used to convert field or laboratory measurements into final, useful data. These tasks are people resource intensive, but BCO-DMO is committed to this approach since it results in higher quality data. The partnership between original investigators and data managers also yields data that can be found and accurately reused by others, not only in the C-DEBI research community, but also colleagues in other research disciplines.

For further information, please contact [John Heidelberg](mailto:jfheidelberg@gmail.com), C-DEBI Data Management and Integration Director.

---
See [NSF OCE Data and Sample Policy](https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=nsf11060)
